# Summary

*Encapsulation*, or information hiding, is one of the big ideas in effective program design.  One common embodiment of the idea is *abstract data types*, which package together operations on some hidden representation type.  We've highlighted a few key points about the versatility of abstract data types:

- **Code can be written generically in some ADT, so that the code works when any implementation of the ADT is plugged in.**  This way, ADT implementations and their client programs can be coded, understood, and maintained separately.
- **A correct implementation of an ADT appears to behave identically to the simple reference implementation on any sequence of method calls.** That way, the former really is a drop-in replacement for the latter, and programmers may pretend that they are using the simpler reference implementation when they are actually using a more clever implementation. There may be multiple ways of writing the ADT to implement the same functionality.
- There is not just one “best” implementation of any ADT: **we often want to implement one ADT differently for different problem contexts, appealing to the same generic algorithms that work “for free” given any implementation of the ADT.**  These custom implementations often improve performance by taking advantage of restrictions on the data that appear in the problem at hand.
- **The same principles apply in roughly the same way to ADTs that are mutable (operations modify the data structure) or immutable (operations return new versions of the data structure).**
- **It is possible and useful to parameterize one ADT implementation over another.**  This design technique supports *hierarchical* program decomposition, where a complex design is broken into a tree of pieces that are successively combined into more complex pieces.  Different members of a coding team can take responsibility for different pieces and work independently of improvements to the others, and even lone programmers can benefit from the chance to focus in on one part of a program, knowing that details of other parts don't directly influence its workings.